# DX Spotter

The use case for this version is to monitor spots on a band, as provided by PSK reporter and a local wsjt-x monitoring a band. New DXCC on the band or overall are identified and shown. A radius around the home grid is used to filter spots that are local, rather than showing all spots. Spots can be filtered according to needs, such as for 5B DXCC, DXCC for specific modes, overall mixed DXCC, or 6M DXCC. This helps to identify stations that have not been worked or confirimed in the current log.

This is currently designed to work with RumLogNG on a Mac. The program is written in Python, and the GUI uses PyQt6, and was mostly coded by providing prompts to Claude (Sonnett) after getting the MQTT communication working. Since it using MQTT it is very fast to show new data. It should work on any platform which supports Python.

Based on pskspotter from:

https://github.com/petrkr/pskspotter.git

This version was generated by Paul B. Manis, NC3G.

# License

MIT License, as already set in pskspotter. 


# General

The changes from the original: 
 - Uses pyqtgraph to create a window with a scrollable table, and a command panel on the left. 
 - Reads an adif log file to look for prior contacts/dxcc's. It can also directly read a RumlogNG file on a Mac.
 - Has filtering on spots as well as a comparision with the current log file to help identify new entities, or 5B-DXCC entities. A special mode also filters just for 6M DXCC.
 - Uses uv to build a local environment.
 - A shell script allows the program to be built as an application (currently, only for Mac OSX; however it should not be hard to make an exe for Windows). 
 - A settings file, config.toml, lives in ~/Library/Application Support/DXSpotter (in mac OSX). This editable file holds the current program state, as well as some parameters that do not often change (WSJT-X address/port; location, where to find the log file). A settings dialog allows the file to be changed without manually editing it.


## Build the virtual environment.

`uv sync`

## run:

python src/pskspotter.py <optional command arguments>

You can download cty plist from https://www.country-files.com/cty/cty.plist and then select it by parameter `--cty-plist`

## Build an app:
./build_app.sh

